The fiction network is an aggregate form, what one might call a macro-form. It is a fictional text – a representation of a fictional space – that is composed of the large-scale conglomeration of other texts. These networks are: proprietary – held as intellectual property by an owning body, and produced under the distinct context of modern capitalist media, rather than by a “folk culture” or a solitary author; persistent – maintained over time without a designated point of closure, and temporally outside the limits of any given artifact; expansive – constituted of a large number of artifacts, to a point where scale itself is a formative pressure; and, connected – constituted by intertextual relationships between artifacts, which in sum constitute a fictional world.

n, “fiction networking” is shorthand for the commercial generation and maintenance of a persistent, large-scale intertext for the purpose of both expanding and deepening consumer engagement. The term should be understood as describing a context that results in textual behaviors, but not necessarily a marker of formal similarity. In other words, fiction networks arise from a similar media ecology, and share characteristics and consequent behaviors, but they have very different compositions and formal operations. This definition attempts to explore connections in popular fictions among textual structures, textual meanings, and the material and cultural apparatus (contexts of production and reception, economic contexts, and technologies) that inform both.

s. As we will see later, some of the most productive moments in fiction networking build on a large and mature base of discursive complexity: a persistent intertext, with a coherent and engaged affinity group engaged in its reception, can generate its own jargon and shorthand, engage in dialogue with itself, rely on a shared history too large to retell in exposition. (...) The comics universe, in contrast, is a breeding ground of discursive complexity.

ks. Homogeneous networks generate meaning in accordance with the constraints and potentials of their semiotic (or, in the case of games, simulative) foundations, while heterogeneous networks attempt to generate a unified system of meaning across different semiotic systems, with varying degrees of success. In other words, each form will reflect these pressures differently as appropriate to its form (or aggregate of forms). However, they all operate under like pressures, and display some analogous behaviors as a result of those pressures. “Fiction network” as a term attempts to track common behaviors that manifest themselves across these different proprietary, persistent, expansive, connected forms of fiction, in the hopes that the drawing of cautious analogies will help inform the ongoing development and study of each of them. “Fiction network” is a category that can illustrate the effects of ownership, persistence, dispersion, and large-scale intertextuality on a narrative or simulation: its progress, its fictionality, its generic composition. “Fiction network” is also a category that places focus on the agents that produce and receive it: corporations, producers for hire, readers, reception communities.

“Fiction network” as a type likewise arises from a belief that reception – to varying degrees, in all these particular systems – has an effect on the text that lies well beyond the interpretive: that it can effect moments of physical textual construction and change. However, I posit this with a particular optic toward social rather than only individual effects on the text. In fiction networks, not only readers or players but receptive communities hold a radical agency; their aggregate responses to a network can and do shape the network’s literal evolution.

It is an immense story constituted of disposable periodicals, a reading experience where a reader must construct a history not from primary materials, but from retellings, which are generated by a interpretive community that reflects not only the influences of a corporate media producer, but, significantly, the influence of the universe’s fandom. The scale and the ephemerality of such fiction networks lend a particular critical and representational weight to these interpretive communities, which are, due to the inception of Internet technologies, increasingly coherent, concrete, and embodied in documents and artifacts.

## Características das redes de ficção
**Propriedade

At the same time, a fiction network is not an uncomplicatedly communal form; it is a proprietary thing, presupposing a capitalist context and a concept of regulated intellectual property which circumscribes the textual system in question. This ontology of commerce and ownership – the fiction network’s dual status as public imaginary form and private property – casts it in opposition to our generally-held understandings of folklore or the creative products of folk culture.

” The space of the fiction network is one where such struggle, founded upon hierarchies of power marked by proprietorship, plays out in the space of an ongoing narrative or simulation. The fiction network is, by definition, owned. Its audience understands its reception of the network as a transaction, and even its fans – who invest in the network as a site of recombination and creation, who contribute to the persistent text in their own varied ways – understand their relationship to the network as fraught and “second-class.” But this does not obviate their investment in the fiction, nor does it remove their formative impact on the fiction as it progresses. In this system, meaning is made in two spheres: that of fiction (a linguistic sphere) and that of branding (a sphere of consumption). These networks bear the compositional pressures of a dual identity: they are both fictions, or symbolic systems that present an imaginary space, and branded properties:

. The artifact (comic book, video game, movie) is, at once, both a branded consumer good and an utterance, laden with both nonlinguistic, culturally stable meanings and with the individual potential of a linguistic act. Further, the fictional world represented by this artifact must both, as a brand, present a conservative “object-code” of stable cultural meanings and, as a fiction, allow for a fluidity of meaning natural to a linguistically-constructed space, especially a game, where textual generation rather than representation is the driving operation. Finally, the world is both a fictional world that the reader/viewer/player observes and a culturally constituted world in a system of consumption. The consumer within a fiction network understands both an imaginary space, or fiction, and a cultural space of distinction which he or she chooses to appropriate. Though, again, this dual state of engagement is, arguably, at play with any text accessed in a capitalist context, it is amplified by the fiction network’s nature of persistence; as a consumer chooses to engage with the network not only with a discrete single purchase but as an ongoing investment, the network takes on an increasing meaning as a mark of identity distinction for a consumer within a material culture. One cannot easily assign predominance to one or the other level of meaning in the fiction network: it is as much an agent of material culture as it is an agent of fiction. Likewise, this duality does not only affect the artifacts of the network contextually or externally; this duality is formative, and is indicated within the text itself. The fiction network bears in its text a fundamental conflict between the conservative meanings of a brand and the fluid meanings of a text; it likewise presents itself, on the level of the text itself, both as a fiction and as a culturally constituted world the consumer can appropriate. This fundamentally distinguishes an artifact in a fiction network: it presents its conventional “object-code” as a brand, and its artistic operation as a creative work, in a state of dialectic that does not resolve. This dialectic is visible in the composition of artifacts. Again, this particular duality – network as fiction and network as space of consumer engagement at once – also owes much to the network’s formative property of persistence.

**Persistência

A fiction network is persistent: though a given artifact (comic book, movie, session of gameplay) might be consumed during a discrete period of time, the overall network exceeds that discrete artifact, and has a continuous life outside of it. Fiction networks generate meaning from a lack of a terminus. They invest not in an ending but rather in the staving off of an ending; if and when they do end, they do not present closure but rather exhaustion.

h an appropriation of generic conventions into a persistent world game creates as many gaps as it does connections, but there are connections: science fiction and fantasy are devoted to the establishment not just of narratives but of fictional worlds which those narratives can inhabit. In science fiction, this world-creation often occurs through the extrapolation of formative principles – in other words, some science fiction has the spirit, if not the operations, of the simulative.

. Twenty-first century media corporations, with capital and resources exponentially greater than the largest Victorian press, produce the majority of our most popular fictions. For these corporations, an ongoing creative work – particularly one without a predetermined end – presents the best of all possible profit models: once it has established reader or viewer interest, it can capitalize on that interest indefinitely, through the sale of new, connected artifacts and spinoffs to that reader or viewer.

s. Media properties or icons, like mythical figures, have “immutable characteristics and an irreversible destiny” (Eco, "The Myth of Superman" 108) as branded properties; in a consumption culture, they carry stable meanings through their “object-code.” In modern capitalist culture, cultural meanings are maintained in different ways, but the cultural 42 icons are nonetheless analogous: these branded, constant icons have become nighmythological to us, familiar and ageless

Predictability and timelessness allow easy entry into the text and make the text appealing to new, unconverted audience members. However, the goal of the fiction network is not only to gain readers but to maintain their relationship with the network, and to do so effectively requires richer plots, tighter causality, engaging serial narrative.

**Expansão

A fiction network is distributed or expansive: it exists across multiple artifacts or “nodes.” 
. Even single-form networks rely on expansion: even outside of other media, the X-Men are presented in almost a dozen monthly comics, and the massively multiplayer game as an enterprise generates new and continuing interest through the periodic packaging and selling of “expansions” that add whole realms, states of being, or modes of play to the preexisting game structure. As an aggregate form, a fiction network consists of texts, each of which composes a portion of the network. I call these atomic or isolatable portions of the network artifacts. Artifacts generally serve marketing purposes – they are units that can be packaged and sold – but, in many cases, artifacts can be produced outside of a commercial context.

There is “code” or shared convention for any of these properties: icons or narremes, key elements crucial to the establishment of a 45 recognizable fictional space, that remain constant from medium to medium. Often, this package of elements incorporates both the “object-code” of the network as brand and a limited set of narrative elements; an artifact can evoke the larger fiction network, however, solely with the inclusion of the “object-code” or brand itself. This allows a widespread range of artifacts – radically different media, radically different forms, radically different interpretations – to be incorporated within the larger network and joined by a brand.

These universes, like other fiction networks, arise when a fiction is deployed widely across artifacts, often to the point where the number of artifacts is no longer easily apprehended or quantified

**Conexão

A fiction network is connected: nodes in a fiction network possess both a degree of autonomy and a degree of interdependence or information-sharing with other “nodes.” Given the parameters of a fiction network, intertextual connection is perhaps inevitable. Persistent and ongoing threads of a fiction network, progressing in parallel, will, to varying degrees, bear intertextually upon one another.

Intertextuality in fiction networks follows a continuum of coherence. In the examples above, and at many points in multiple-media universes, the connecting references are indirect; these moments bear upon their respective texts, but the connection does not have a literal causality. However, in other fiction networks, this intertextuality does manifest itself literally, with narratives merging into one another at junction nodes

The intertextualities at play in fiction networks can have implications not only for the texts themselves but for their readers, as audiences become increasingly familiar and comfortable with iterations of fictions that both differ from and inform one another.

ne: Here the spectators must know many things: they must certainly know of the existence of another film (extratextual knowledge), but they must also know that both monsters were created by Rambaldi and that the directors of the two films are linked together for various reasons… they must, in short, have not only a knowledge of the texts but also a knowledge of the world, of circumstances external to the texts. (Eco, "Interpreting Serials" 89)

These fiction networks, I would argue, imply a third Model Reader in its text as well: a reader who understands not only the message of the text and its structural or rhetorical choices, but also the contexts and mechanisms of production that have generated the text, and, importantly, the constitutive effect of these contexts and mechanisms upon the text. T

Because of the countless permutations of persistence, expansion, and connection that could generate a fiction network, each one has an individual topology; because persistence, expansion and connection are ongoing phenomena in a fiction network, each topology is always in a state of flux. A fiction network must therefore continue to explain its own form; it must continually make its rules of engagement comprehensible to the reader, even as those rules change and innovate. The ongoing metanarrative of the network – the story of its shape, and of its rules for reading – is negotiated in the network itself, with an implied Model Reader who will engage with this negotiation. Thus, the fiction network contains not only multiple persistent story threads, but also contains, at textual, intertextual, and/or metatextual points within those threads, information about the shape and composition of the network itself

**Emergência e escala

The phenomena of persistence, expansion and connection, in all these networks, serve a purpose of profit; their primary goal is to maximize and deepen consumer engagement. In their convergence, though, they have generated something unintended and new: large-scale, complex and evolutionary textual forms.

A fiction network is not necessarily a form ab ovo. Often, a form begins displaying the behaviors of “fiction networking” as a phenomenon of scale. Emergence or complexity theory attempts to explain macrobehaviors that arise in large, distributed collections of independent entities: ant colonies, slime mold aggregations, or even cities.

When persistence and expansion take fictions out of the hands of one author, or even a dozen – when an aggregation of stories, serials, and adaptations is old enough, or large enough, to begin displaying sophisticated intertextuality, or a visible awareness and negotiation, embedded within itself, of its own shape and rules – it has undergone a phase transition and has changed from an aggregate of related texts into a network. No network topology is the same, and consequently this point of phase transition cannot necessarily be predicted; however, fiction networks display demonstrably different behaviors from other textual aggregations, and these behaviors make them what they are.

This distinction – that “fiction network” is a definition more behavioral or contextual – is useful when discussing the various examples of fiction networks in this study, which are 54 characterized as much by divergence as by commonality.

On the other hand, a comics universe, as we will see, is the very analog (as in non-digital) result of decades of periodical publishing, where the idea of creative and audience agency are complicated and circumscribed by corporate ownership and the concept of work-for-hire. However, both are, like multiple-media story franchises, examples of large-scale fictions where persistence, expansion, and connection have created organized systems characterized by the intertextual and metatextual negotiation and play of a fiction network.




